So in this section we'll add some templates in our theme that are still missing and they are also required.
So right now we have the archive.php.
We also have the index.php which will be the fallback for any missing template. We also have the single.php
which will be used for single blog posts.
So let's take a look at,
remember this chart here.
We now have the archieve.php and the archieve.php will be used for the Author Archive,
Category Archieve, Custom Post Types and Custom Taxonomies and we'll see this in a saperate section.
Also the Date Archives and Tag Archives.
So I've added some widgets here to display the categories and tags.
So if we go to a category we'll find this template being used. And this template is archive.php.
So you are displaying the archive title and that's what's being displayed here.
And for a tag it will be different.
And also for a time archive or a month archive. So if you want to create a separate template for the category
archive or the tag archive or the monthly archives, you can use category.php and date.php and tag.php.
But I think you can do this by yourself if you would like.
Let's now see the Author Archive.
So here we can click on author and we'll have an author archive. And currently this also uses the archive.php
We have the archive title and the archive description. And the archive description will display the author info
if it's an author archive or it'll display the category description. So in the backend we can go to Post
Categories and add a description for each category. So that what will be displayed by the archive description.
But let's say we need the archive for the author to be a little bit different.
We need to display more information about the author.
We would like to make it kind a like a profile for the author.
So let's create a separate template for the author.
So I'm gonna create a file called author.php. And let's save. And now we'll have a blank page here.
So let's start coding the author.php.
So what we need to do now is we need, let's copy of the archive.php.
It will be a kind of the same but we'll have to modify it a little. So let's copy the archive and paste
it in the author.php.
So what I would like to do is remove the sidebar. So let's remove this and I'm gonna copy this row or column.
And I'm gonna put it before the posts. And inside this column we'll have the author info. So let's take a look.
And we'll also have to remove this.
So we'll have the author info in this sidebar on the right or in the left. And on right we have the
posts for this author, right? And we won't have to change anything in the loop. We'll just have
to change this to "author". Remember why we do that.
If loop-author is found in your theme file it will be used.
If not then loop.php will be used. And this is to give the child theme developers the chance to write
a custom loop just for the author page, right?
We also have to remove this condition here.
You don't have a sidebar anymore. So this will always be 8.
And now let's display the information about the author. And I did something like that in the single page when we
display the author info.
But now you are in a
author archive.
How to get the current author is by using the query var in the URL.
So I'm not sure if we mentioned this before but in the WordPress settings you can choose, go to Permalinks and
you can choose a Pretty permalink or you can choose the Plain permalink the default one. So let's save now.
And let's now go to the home page and let's click on the author again.
Now what we have in the URL is a query parameter here and the ID of the author.
So how to get this is by using a function called get_query_var().
So let's open a PHP tag here and get all the information we need and then we will use in below.
So we'll get the author ID and get_query_var().
And ours is called "author", this one.
So let's copy this. And now we have the ID of the author.
So why don't we go to template-parts/single/author.php
I just copy some of the information here. And let's paste but have to change some of it because here when
we used this function we were inside the loop. But now we are not inside the loop so some of this function
will require to supply the ID.
So for example the website, we have to supply the ID, also the description and get_the_author() will not work in this case.
So we'll have to get it another way using get_the_author_meta(). And the field is called "display_name".
And we don't need the URL in this case because we are actually inside this URL.
And finally the number of posts and this function also will work inside the loop, so we can use another function
called count_user_posts(). And it takes the user ID.
So let's now use the information that we got in this sidebar. So let's create a HEADER tag and the first we need
the avatar.
So let's open PHP and "echo get".
Sorry "get_avatar()".
And it needs the author ID.
And the "size" and we can ignore all the others.
So let's say 128. And now let's add an H1 tag.
So this will be the main title for the page which will be the author name.
Right?
And I'm also gonna give it a "margin-bottom" is in the one of my classes.
So "u-margin", "margin-top" sorry.
Let's also had BOLD tags so that the name will be more significant in the page. And let's now open PHP tags
and display the name.
So let's "echo esc_html()".
And then the $author_display.
So let's see now. And we now have the avatar and the author name.
And now we need to display the number of posts.
So why don't we copy this from here because it will be a lot of typing the _n() and that kind
of stuff.
So let's copy this. And let's paste it here. And I don't think we will have to change anything here.
Yes, of course you can always type the translator comment.
So maybe "%s is the number of posts" and let's make sure it's fine.
And "3 posts". And then we need to display the website.
So let's open PHP and check that we have a website first. And if so let's output an A tag and why don't we
copy this. And it will be the same.
We don't have to type it again. And close the A tag and then inside of it we'll have to echo the
website.
So let's "echo esc_html()" and then $author_website.
So let's take a look.
And now we have the website.
But let's echo
let's output a line break here.
All right. Let's finally output the author description.
So I wanna P tag with a class
"c-post
"c-post-author__description" and let's echo and escape the description.
Let's take a look.
And fine. I also have a class that wraps after the H1 that wraps
the website and the number of posts.
I think that will just improve the styling a bit.
And it's called "c-post-author__info". And let's add some spacing and stuff like that.
So I think that will be it for the author.
Let's see now what other templates are required to create before publishing the theme.
So see you in the next lecture.